[Music]
hi
i'm melissa for bbc good food and i'm
going to help you make your christmas
magical
by showing you how to make my curry
turkey patties and
my mango and coconut trifles from my
retro twist
in the christmas 2020 magazine let's go
so first off we're going to put the
flour into your mixing bowl
and next we've got the spices i've got
my turmeric and the curry powder and the
salt and the sugar
and give that a mix just to incorporate
it
so next we've got the butter and the
shortening you don't have to use
shortening you can make it up with
butter
but i think shortening helps create this
lovely flakiness in the pastry it's
really really good
and then get your hands in and you want
to mix all of that butter and the
shortening
in with the flour so what i'm trying to
do is
press the flour into the butter and into
the shortening
just to fully mix it in until it looks
like breadcrumbs it's starting to work
now you can see
the butter and the shortening and the
flour are starting to fuse together and
take on this sort of nice crumbliness
still a bit further to go
so now i'm going to pop the egg in there
and the vinegar
and get your hands back in and just mix
that all in and so this should start
coming together
as a dough right and at this point
i'm going to turn it out onto the
surface to get your shoulders into it
and at this stage if it's still a bit
too crumbly
you can add a touch more water but only
add a little bit because you can always
add more and you can't take it away
right so i'm happy with this so i'm
gonna just gently flatten it out
and then we're gonna cover it and the
flattening just helps
later on when we come to rolling it so
already you can see this
vibrant yellow color which is the
classic jamaican patty color coming from
that turmeric
which makes me hungry thinking about
what we're going to eat later
and i'm just going to wrap it so it
doesn't dry out
and get that in the fridge to cool down
so now it's time for the filling
i've got my vegetables i've got my
turkey and my spices but because the
patties are quite flat i'm going to go
in for quite a fine dice with these
enough of the garlic
and now for the tomatoes normally i use
one big tomato but because these are
quite small i'm going to use two
and now for some ginger and a great tip
for peeling ginger is to use a spoon
rather than using a knife because
it comes away really easily and you're
not wasting loads of the
loads of the ginger itself so now i'm
going to fry the vegetables i'm going to
put some oil into a pan just regular
vegetable
oil so i just want the frying pan at a
medium heat
and first in with the onions just give
them a stir get them all covered in oil
so i'm going to wait for the onion to
soften and to start cooking in the
meantime i'm going to chop up this
leftover turkey
and again we want to chop it up quite
finely because the patties are quite
flat so you don't want big chunks of
vegetables or big chunks of turkey
right so i'm going to go in with the
garlic now and
i'm going to grate some ginger straight
into the pan
and mix it all in honestly the smell of
ginger garlic
and onions cooking is just the best
right so now in for
the tomatoes and for the time so in with
the time sprigs and just
drag them from the tip to the bottom to
the root
and their little leaves will come off
and if any of the sprigs have fallen in
just take them out and put them to the
side i'm gonna mix this up
we're gonna let that cook for a few more
minutes before we add the spices
right so now i'm gonna add the spice and
i'm gonna add a little bit of water
to the spices about a tablespoon
and give that a mix and pour it in and
that just stops the spices from burning
when they go into the hot pan and gives
time for kind of all the nice oils and
the aromas to get going
[Music]
so now it's time for the turkey
and because it's already cooked we're
just going to kind of warm this through
[Music]
mix it in so all the turkey gets coated
in those lovely spices and the onions
and the tomato and everything else
and now for the turkey stock just pour
that in give it a mix
i'm going to wait for this to start
bubbling and then i'm going to reduce it
to a simmer
and this is done you can see it's
reduced down i've just turned the heat
up just to evaporate that last bit of
water
but the source of thick and as it cools
down it's going to become even thicker
we're ready to go so i'm going to pour
it into this bowl
and then i'm going to leave that on the
side to cool down and once it's cool
put it in the fridge to cool down even
further so now it's time for the pastry
it's been chilling in the fridge
lovely so i'm gonna put a bit of flour
onto the rolling pin to stop it from
sticking
and then just roll it out so you want it
about four millimeters thick
and that is about right
right so now it's time to cut discs for
the patties um just grab a bowl this
one's 15 centimeters which is a perfect
size for the patty
and put it as close to the edge as you
can
and just cut around and then
try and squeeze these as close as you
can so you're not
having big gaps or pastry in between
them so i'm just gonna get rid of some
of this excess pastry
makes these a bit easier to handle and
then we're gonna gently
transfer these onto our baking sheet
before we fill them
because once the filling goes on they're
really tricky to handle
so now it's time to stuff the patties so
this is the curry mixture
it's nice and cold so all the liquid is
quite solid which you want it really
helps when you're doing this so we want
to add
about two tablespoons of filling
don't over stuff them there is the
temptation to put too much but you don't
want them to burst
and i'm leaving a two centimeter border
so now just to egg wash them around the
edge
before we fold them over and now we're
just gonna
fold them over be really careful
press press down quite firmly just to
make sure you've got a nice seal there
and now grab a fork and just round the
edge
press and finally don't forget to give
them a little poke with a fork
just let the steam come out as they're
cooking and then just finish
with a bit of your egg wash so now i'm
going to pop these in the oven
at 180 fan for about 20 to 25 minutes
until they've kind of gone nice and
golden brown
right so now the patties are cooked
they're ready
so i'm going to take them out of the
oven
look at that right so now we're going to
take these patties very carefully
off the baking tray on onto the plate
they smell
incredible i'm very excited
and now for my favorite part of all
eating them
they're so good so tasty the pastry is
really flaky
delicious you must must make them you'll
never look at leftover turkey in the
same way again i promise
and now it's time to make my coconut and
mango trifles so
first up i've got three leaves of
gelatine i'm gonna just soak them
in the water until they turn soft and
then just while they're softening
here's some orange juice and that's
going into the saucepan
and i'm just gonna turn it onto a low
heat
right so now these are soft so i'm just
going to squeeze the excess water
and put them into the orange juice and
i'm going to stir those
until they fully melt so the gelatin is
mixed in with the orange juice and now
it's time for the mango pulp and then
just mix that all in together
so now it's time to build the trifles
first we're going to start with the
sponge fingers and then drizzle a little
bit of rum or
a lot of rum then we've got the
raspberries and then the mango
so you might want to break the fingers
if they won't fit
in the bottom as they are
so now it's time for the mango jelly
which i'm going to fill up to just under
halfway
so now it's time for custard here i've
got my coconut milk
i'm going to pour that in and you want
to heat it
and simmer it off until it reduces by
about a third
so now i'm going to mix the sugar and
the egg yolk but keep an eye on the
coconut milk because you don't want it
to catch
first of all the sugar and then the egg
yolks
and mix it fully and just until it all
comes together
so now in with the cornflour
and with the milk
now i'm just whisking that together make
sure there's no lumps in it
and in with the vanilla
so this mixture is going to help the
custard get that lovely custardy
thickness
so now it's time for the double cream to
go in with the coconut milk
and then just give it a quick mix and
take off the heat
so now i'm going to pour the coconut
mixture into the egg mix
and you've got to whisk really really
quickly because you don't want the eggs
to scramble
so then we're going to pour this back
into the saucepan
so i'm just going to cook this over a
medium low heat and we're just waiting
for it to thicken up
so the custard sets and it's delicious
so this is thickened up perfectly
and it's ready to go so i'm going to
take it off the heat let it cool down
before i pour it because i don't want
the i don't want the jelly to melt
so just to help it cool down i'm going
to pour it into a glass bowl
and set that aside to cool so now i'm
just going to scatter these coconut
flakes
into a baking tray try and keep them so
they're not too piled up on top of each
other and so now pop these in the oven
just for about three minutes or so
because they turn quickly so now we're
getting close
first of all put your sugar into your
double cream
and you can use a hand mixer for this
but hopefully it won't take too long
we want to get it just a soft peak so we
can spoon it on top of the trifle
there you go starting to go already
don't over whisk it
because then there's no turning back
so now we're there the peaks kind of
fall
but it's going to keep its shape and i
don't want to mix that anymore
so now i've mixed the cream and i'm just
going to put the coconut custard
onto the trifles
so i've just put the trifles back into
the fridge for them to set before we add
the cream
so here are the coconut flakes just
browned
be careful because they might be hot
now it's time to put the finishing
touches to the trifles
first of all spoon some cream on top
and everyone loves trifles right but
this one is just a little twist
it's like a sunshine trifle just brings
a bit of joy to winter
and now just great bit of lime over the
top
i just want the nice zest and then just
to finish some of the coconut flakes on
top
[Music]
and there you have it my retro twist for
bbc good food this christmas
do give them a go they're amazing and
don't forget to tag us
in your creations at bbc good food and
so now i get to taste some of this
coconut mango trifle
[Music]
delicious